ld43:

sacrifices must be made





Hey. How's it going? 

Boy, what a week I've had.

I woke up Monday morning as normal and found some mail which had been left unnoticed on the ground.

Obviously it was great news! ... Not!

My mortgage is overdue. They want a payment of $2000 by the end of the week or they're gonna send some people around to reclaim my posessions. 

I know I may look like a million dollars, but I just don't have that kinda money laying around, y'know?

I head in, I speak to the boss. His face lights up like a christmas tree.

"Sure, I got tons of extra work for you. Do as much overtime as you can, I could really use the help."

"Things around here aren't lookin' so hot either" he told me. "Those two HUGE clients we got in last year ain't happy with our quality of service."

"Satisfy them and I'll pay ya mortgage myself, pal".

Sounds like problem sorted, eh. I just pull some all nighters and we're over the hump.

Thing is, with a newborn baby at home, and potentially one more on the way, I can't leave my wife home alone all week. She needs me there.

Still, I can't make her homeless either! She gave up a lot to be with me. If we lose our house, I'll just prove her parents right.

So, monday evening rolls around, and people start going home. 

Boss comes over and asks me to decide how long I'm gonna stay, so he can let security know there's gonna be someone around.

By law I need to sleep for at least 2 hours a night, so my boss don't lose his job for violating our health insurance.



<<choose>>






I decided to carry on for X hours. Earned myself a <<adjective>> <<amount>> dollars.


<<whether or not saw wife>>

Tuesday came about next, of course. 

Mostly a normal day all morning. <<whether was tired>>

Boss came to me at lunch looking all serious.

Said "Hey, you know those guys we were talking to last week? That life-changing contract? Well, it's back on!" 

"That's great!" I said

"Back on, as in, we get another chance to bid. We haven't won it yet."

"Ah, that makes sense..." I replied

"Yeah, well, you still after overtime? Get us that contract and I'll buy ya a house myself!"

"If we lose 'em... uh, well, it ain't lookin' all sunshine, kid. Feel me?"

...

"Pitch is tomorrow. Knock em out, champ!"

Sounds like we really need them. Maybe I should put in a few more hours tonight. I'm sure everyone at home is fine without me.

That evening, I said goodbye to my last coworker, before catching up with the boss to fill in my overtime.


<choose>>

Wednesday morning I woke up to my wife in kahoots. 

Asked her what was going on, fingers crossed it was some good news.

"It's happening. Again"

"Another one?" I asked

"Yes. We're having another baby"

We both looked at each other for a minute, not sure whether to jump for joy or cry for help. 

Can we afford to give a second child the life it truly deserves?

*beep-beep*, *beep-beep*, *beep-beep*

Oh, my alarm clock. 

"I need to start getting ready for work." I said. "We'll talk about this tonight".

On the way into work, it hit me like a ton of bricks. 

My wife can't work while pregnant. The fumes produced by those machines can wreak havoc on the baby.

...

...

WAIT! There's a temp space open at work. I'm sure the boss is pleased enough at my dedication this week to give her the job until the baby comes.

If I didn't screw up the bid for our huge client, I'm sure he'll be thrilled to help me out.

...

I hope.



I immediately went straight to the boss' office to make sure he'd had a chance to look over my bid.

He had a huge smile on his face.

"You, sir, are a rockstar! This is brilliant! There's no way they'll turn this down."

"This is it, we've gottem. We've gottem for sure!"

"c'mere ya big genuis!"

Well, that was... the best reaction I could have hoped for!

I cleared my throat nervously. "Glad you like it boss. Hey uh, listen..."

"My wife just realised she's pregnant again. She can't work at the factory anymore, because of the fumes. You put that..."

"The temp job? Consider it hers!" 

"Ah boss, you're a life-saver!" I smiled, and let out a huge sigh of relief.

"She can help you with yer overtime, if ya want. I know you ain't in a good place for raisin' a second child, the money could really help."

I was so thrilled I could've pounced on my boss and given him a huge hug.

I didn't though.

I just nodded and left the room to phone my wife.

She doesn't love the work we do here. Finds it boring. 

Still, I knew she didn't really have room to complain. Work is work, money is money.

She dropped the little one over at her mother's and came in for the afternoon shift.

It was nice seeing her, Felt like the most I'd seen her all week. Probably was.


That evening, the boss came over to check on us. Security need to know when the two of us would be leaving.

I knew the drill by now.

<<choices>>


<< time-based bit about wife >>
That night my wife slept in the baby's room. I think she felt guilty about the overtime. 

I promised myself that when this debt is paid I'd spend a whole week with the two of them.

Just needed to get out of this mess. 


When I got to work on Thursday I noticed a few people were missing. 

<<if worked more than a certain amount of time>>
Apparently they were contractors, and I'd completed their work for them on my overtime. 

I'd like to think they got paid in full anyway, but with the way the boss has been talking, I can't be sure.

<<else>>
Apparently the company really isn't doing great. 

I'd heard the boss talking about it, but it never quite became reality until then.


I caught up with the boss that afternoon. He looked nervous.

"Gotta give your bid today son, but uh, listen"

"Because of, y'know, last time... they just want me there."

"I know it's your work and all but, you know what these corporate people are like"

"Don't sweat it" I replied "You're totally the only person I'd trust to deliver this bid exactly how it needs to go"

"Go get 'em boss!" I gave him a reassuring pat on the back.


The boss left with the clients for what I assume was a boozy night on the town, so I checked in with security myself.

They weren't supposed to deal with us directly, but since we'd been doing it all week he let this occasion slide.

He sure kept a close eye on me that night, though.



<<choose>>


<<if wife worked late>>
I awoke Friday to the sound of my wife being sick.

Poor thing just found out she's pregnant and she's already being worked like a dog.

If the boss pays out, I'm gonna treat her real good this weekend.

She slept in the kid's room again. 

Am I a bad person for not feeling as guilty as she does?

I'm doing this for the both of them. No, the three of them now.

<<money check>>

The whole office block is closed on weekends, and I can't work from home either.

This was my last chance to grab enough money to get us out of trouble for another month. 

I'd need to swing by the other office and cash in my hours before I got home. If I forgot, the whole week was for nothing.

To get there I'd need to leave by 9, so only 4 hours of overtime I could take.

<<money related phrase>> I thought I'd make it okay / I knew I couldn't make it / I could just about scrape it together.

Thw wife went to hospital that day, so the rest of the money making was up to me.




At 11am the boss dragged himself in. He looked a wreck.

"Good night out?" I asked.

<< if too much overtime >>

He called me into his office and shut the door. 

Uh oh.

He threw the bid in front of me and told me to give it a read over.

"But I wrote it?" I asked puzzled.

"Shut your eyes for twenty seconds, then open 'em an' read it properly!" 

I did as instructed.

My face must've dropped like a lead balloon.

There were spelling errors everywhere. Some of the sentences made no sense, and there was a big coffee ring on the second page. 

"But..." I began.

"No. Just, don't. You've been working too hard, kid. Don'tcha know how important sleep is for quality of work?"

"But I..." I said in desparation

"No, kid. I know. I know."

"Truth is, I've not been myself ever since we lost those other two. I've been drinkin' hard at night."

"I didn't even read this before I began. I just saw how much you been workin' and put total confidence in ya."

"I looked like such a fool in that room, kid. They thought we was morons. Again."

"Most I could do was buy 'em a few drinks to apologise and try some sweet talkin'."

"They wasn't gonna turn down the drinks, but I knew the whole time they'd given up on us."

"Is..." I tried.

"Yeah, kid. That's it. End o' the month corporate'll be down here to close us. They've seen us as nothing but an expense for who-knows-how-long".

"Just... just go home kid. I can't... I just can't stand to... just..."

I knew what he wanted to say. I gave him a nod and walked out.

I'd done this to him. I'd done this to us all.

My desire to grab money like there's no tomorrow has put 25 people out of work. 

*back to present day*

But you know what?

Corporate did close the branch. But they took one look at my timecard and decided I was too valuable an employee to lose.

They spoke to my boss, who couldn't bring himself to say a bad word about me, knowing the situation.

So now I'm a boss. Of course, we had to move. But given the pay increase, and the new child, that was a given.

I left my few friends behind. I mean, I'm sure they understand that family comes first. 

Thought I'd make some new ones at work.

Thing is.

Rumours. They spread like wildfire. My people know what happened back there.

I started the job thinking I could be as great a boss as my old one. Maybe I could take someone under my wing, call them "kid".

Raise them to my level of success one day, like he did for me.

But nah. They all hate me. They think I'm gonna run their branch into the ground, too.

I'm starting to believe they might be right.

Ungrateful brats.

So, yeah. I make a lotta money, live in a huge house, and have two wonderful children I get to see every weekend.

Divorced life is just leaving me a bit lonely. So I'm looking for a friend. 

Maybe more.

I guess that's me. 

Tell me about you.

*realises he's on a date*.





<< If not enough overtime >>

He called me into his office and shut the door

Uh oh.

"They... they didn't buy it. Just wasn't enough."

"Enough?" I questioned.

"Not enough thought. Not enough care. Not enough room for negotiation."

"We had more to offer 'em. An' they know we did. But they wouldn' take my word for it. They wanted it on paper."

"An' it wasn't on the paper."

"There was just... not enough on the papers."

I knew it.

I was toast.

"I've been tellin' ya about how we're doin'... y'know... financially."

"Corporate said next person to screw up is a gonner."

"I just... I know about yer kids an' all, but..."

This was it. The gun was loaded. 

Well, I was the gun. Or maybe the bullet.

Either way. I was fired.

"Kid..."

I choked back my tears. I knew he didn't want to say it. And I didn't want to hear it.

I got up, looked him in the eye, and walked out.

My desk was aready being packed up by security.

I gave them all business property and walked with them to the front door, turning over my ID card.

*back to present day*

I haven't been home since. I know my wife has realised. There's no way she hasn't.

I just can't face her. Her and the child. The children. 

Bayliffs are coming tomorrow. I'll go back and protect her from them. 

I will.

I must.

*realises he's sitting on the streets.*

